there's one marketing strategy that in
my opinion is the best way to scale a
SAS company to 500k Mr and Beyond I'm
talking about SEO it's one of the huge
plays a company like zapia used to scale
to millions of organic visitors each and
every month and drive a huge chunk of
leads and signups and before you bounce
off this video thinking we tried SEO in
the past but it just didn't work for us
chances are you didn't na the right
strategy or follow the right Frameworks
but here's where it gets interesting if
you can nail SEO you can consistently
rank above your competitors driving
quality traffic leads demos signups or
revenue for high intent prospects
searching directly for your offer in
this video I'm going to share the full
strategy we use to get SAS clients six
and seven figures in mrr from SEO let's
dive in so why SEO well so many SAS
companies treat SEO as a tick boox
exercise I.E let's publish one or two
blog articles a month install a plugin
on our website and that'll be it job
done or they complete completely neglect
SEO all together and focus all their
time cash and resources on things like
outbound sales paid ads paid media
influencer marketing events trade shows
or elsewhere well this is your chance to
get ahead of them all those competitors
that are either doing very little have a
poor strategy or completely neglecting
SEO you can start outranking them and
scooping up all that high intent traffic
for dream clients searching for your
offerings on Google to drive leads and
revenue and other benefits include the
Evergreen compounding effect fact so
have you ever searched for a video on
YouTube and seen videos that are maybe a
few months or even a few years old SEO
is just the same your content can work
hard for you putting multiple lines in
the water and you can show up with pages
that are months or even years old when
folks are searching directly for your
office or each and every asset page
backlink Etc you build is going to have
a compounding effect driving more and
more quality traffic with the right
strategy over time plus it can reduce
your Reliance on paid ads so you can
spend less on Google paid search and
drive more quality organic traffic also
these days many folks know exactly what
a sponsored ad is especially on Google
so they may Place more trust in the
organic listings not only that but SEO
is part of the SAS marketing and B2B
marketing ecosystem so if you're
consistently top of organic search
results when folks search for your offer
direct they compare you to Alternative
Solutions or they look for answers to
their problems they're looking to solve
specific juicy problems if you
consistently show top of organic search
it build builds trust it builds mind
share and it gives you more chance to
drive a steady flow of qualified leads
signups and revenue for your s so let's
talk about how you can practically put
this into play first off you want to
avoid something I call the traffic trap
what the hell is the traffic trap well
the traffic trap is focusing on
informational based keywords I.E things
like what is a website what is a CRM
what is a kpi simple based keywords that
are going to get wiped out most likely
by a AI for example Google recently
introduced AI overviews so top of the
fold when you search something on Google
you get an instant result instead of
having to click through the traditional
Blue Links so these are information
based keywords at best if someone does
flick onto your website they might get
the info they need and Skip off or maybe
download a lead Magnet or similar we
want to avoid high traffic informational
keywords we don't want to get caught in
the traffic trap we want to focus on
bottom of funnel keywords I.E money
keywords what is someone going to search
for when they need an offer now when
they're looking directly for the
solution solution maybe they're
comparing alternative vendors or maybe
they have a crisp and specific juicy
problem they want to solve so we can
position our offer as that painkiller so
going after those money keywords quite
often they're lower traffic compared to
informational based top funnel keywords
which is good because there's a lot more
sales intent behind them they're more
likely to take a demo take a sign up or
similar so my recommendation is to fire
up an Excel sheet or a Google sheet
first off you want to do four main
columns column one your main offerings
column two industry column three your
prospects juicy problems or their jobs
to be done and column four is the main
competitors that come up on sales cools
the reason we're building out this sheet
is so we can start building out longtail
money keywords that our Dream clients
would search for when they need our
offer comparing Alternatives or have the
problems that we solve so as a quick
example column one for offer if you sold
proposal software as your SAS that might
be proposal software you might put
proposal tools proposal platforms and
similar Industries these are the
industries you serve well have
historically bought well from you have
the problems you solve and have enough
cash to easily invest in your offer so
it could be sales teams HR fintech
Finance sporting whatever jobs to be
done what are the struggling moments
that your prospects face where your
product is positioned to solve those or
maybe even a way that they get the job
done internally before realizing a
solution like yours exists that could be
how to write proposals that convert or
how to write killer proposals in word
docs or how to more sales quotations or
similar and then the main competitors
that come up so in The Proposal space
that might be proposify Panda do G
except quiller and from there you want
to build out longtale keywords for each
and every one so if we're doing our
offer plus industry column 1 and column
two together that could be proposal
software for sales teams or proposal
software for HR teams or proposal
software for finance teams or similar
other variants might be best proposal
software that would probably be a really
nice keyword to Target initially but
that's going to be a lot longer term um
to rank number one for because your main
competitors will probably be dominating
the space so that's probably something
you want to rank for longer term earn
some back links for and slowly chip away
at but shorter term the more longer
taale keyword typically the quicker it
will be to rank so things like best
proposal software for sales teams or
best proposal software for fintech teams
because they're a bit more detailed
building up those pages will typically
be a bit faster to rank so that's a few
ways there and then using your
competitors in keywords that could be
things like alternative based keywords
or pricing based keywords so in this
example pandadoc Alternatives proposify
Alternatives quiller Alternatives
quiller pricing that kind of stuff
really good cuz prospects usually
compare three or four vendors so if you
can then rank for those kind of terms
you can position your offer as the best
solution with your differentiators what
you do they don't Etc and start driving
leads that way some other ways that can
work well are in the middle of the
funnel folks like to download things
like checklists examples templates so in
this proposal example it might be sales
proposal checklists or sales proposal
templates or Sal proposal examples those
can work quite well somewhere in the
middle of the funnel to get someone to
download a lead magnet and then start
nurturing them via email or a
programmatic SEO play which is something
like zapia did was start to show up for
different kind of Integrations in their
case so that could be things like
integrate HubSpot with proposify or
integrate Trello plus slack or Google
Sheets plus HubSpot so these two things
that you can connect in their case was
what they were talking about and then
they did a programmatic play which
basically meant they built out Pages at
scale with similar content with slight
tweaks to enable them to rank for a
bunch of different terms for integration
based solutions that can work quite well
if your SAS is a bit more technical has
a bit more technical use base or has
specific use cases where you need to
link one item or one solution to another
is another way to consider for a bit
more advanced programmatic SEO play once
you finished up your list of exhaustive
keywords the next thing you want to do
is see what type of pages rank for each
and every money keyword so the easiest
way to do this is to head over to Google
search for one of your focus keywords
and see what type of page Google favors
what's ranking well in the top three or
so organic non-sponsored listings is it
an article is it a comparison page is it
a landing page or is it something else
so you know what type of page you need
to build out to rank well on that
keyword as an example if you're watching
on the video you'll see that we've got
one of our clients checkr.com we've got
their ADP Alternatives page for their
SAS they do HR and payroll software so
as this is an Alternatives based page
usually these are structured in the
format that they've got five 10 or more
listings and normally they position
their own product as number one using
the blowout the water strategy we look
to make our page more useful helpful
trustworthy Google dropped out a
framework called eat they rolled that
framework out a while back experience
expertise Authority trust great one to
bear in mind when you're building up
pages that you want to blow out the
water so what I'd usually do is look
look at those pages look for gaps in the
current pages that are ranking top three
note down any gaps in their pages that
we can double down on if they've got a
top five comparison page I'd look to
double that so I do a top 10 so there's
no risk of us having to update our page
anytime soon so a few things to note
when we're building out articles at the
moment we want to rank on Google as well
as AI searches so we're weaving in
things like a quick summary of the page
and also why you should listen to us to
help boost trust signals and things like
AI overviews chat gpgt search and
similar and then usually folks will do
the top 10 10 list or top five list
whatever they've built out for the
Alternatives page but instead of just
harping on about how great you are and
how how much your competitors suck
instead do a fair assessment but when it
comes to listing out your own page talk
about things like your points of
differentation why customers choose you
above others weave in examples of your
products so folks can see it in action
screenshots Gifts of that aha that
awesome moment where your product kicks
into play maybe some testimonial videos
of customers and why they switch from a
competitor to you maybe some customer
quotes and then what we like to do on
the fixed on the left right left or
right hand side is usually a table of
contents so folks can quickly skip to
different parts of the article and also
a fixed cool to action so if you want to
book a meeting take a sign up or
whatever that relevant cool to action is
based on the type of page that you're
looking to rank for and then after
you've positioned your product as number
one on the list then a fair assessment
of all the competitors underneath make
sure it's fair you don't want to get
yourself an illegal battle but that's an
example of uh Alternatives so competive
Alternatives page but it could be that
you're trying to rank for a landing page
in that case maybe the number one
organic landing page right now is quite
thin on content maybe they just have a
basic problem agitation solution
framework and you want to dive a bit
deeper so you talk about the problem you
weave in a YouTube video embed
specifically about that topic maybe you
walk through your process maybe you have
some customer testimonial videos
embedded maybe you have a niif nice FAQ
section talking about all the common
objections and questions you get on
sales calls and you cover each one in
depth and you just look to one up that
page as much as possible and the other
thing is once you've upped the content
side of things and you've got the best
possible page then basic technical SEO
so making sure your keyword is within
your meta title and description making
sure it's within your focus URL so for
example for this if we want to rank for
ADP Alternatives we do yourdomain.com
adpen Alternatives and then you want
your main keyword within your H1 and
aside from that you can weave it in
naturally within the content but that's
probably apart from weaving in some
internal links so making sure within
that Focus page you've got some internal
links to relevant content on the topic
and likewise other Pages outside of this
page whether it's landing page or other
articles link back to this page as long
as they're on a similar topic makes it
easier for Google to CW the page quickly
and also boosts up something called
topical Authority that can help you rank
a little bit faster and a bonus tip here
we're in a world where you can churn out
tons of pages and content at scale using
AI but if dream clients land on these
pages is they might think it's written
by a robot doesn't resonate with me and
the chances are if it doesn't make sense
if it's not helpful to the end user
there's a chance it might be down ranked
by Google so instead you want your pages
to rank resonate and convert dream
clients the best way to do that is to
pull insights and things like sales
calls prospecting calls demo calls
customer success calls and more leverage
those insights to really understand your
customers problems pain points the
impact of not fixing them their goals
their job jobs to be done their
motivations and more so when a dream
client lands on this page it resonates
with them straight away it builds trust
you're positioning your product as the
solution you're leveling trust signals
with social proof examples testimonials
customer stories and you're making it
easy for them to see that you're the
Clear Choice and easy for them to take a
sign up or take a demo now for some of
your really competitive money keywords
to try and rank for them without
backlinks is going to be a struggle so
here's a few ways that you can earn
solid back links to give your website
and rankings a boost without breaking
the bank one of my favorites is to find
Partners build Partnerships with
companies that go after the same target
audience the same Idol client profile as
you but they're not direct competitors
so you can reach out to these folks
perhaps the founder or the marketing
leader or similar on LinkedIn or via
email you could send them a painfully
short message it could be something like
hey Steve or hey Janice had an unusual
idea we could create content together
and ramp up our websites traffic and
leads are you against a chat or against
a conversation something a bit unusual
to Peak their curiosity this has a
really good hit rate when they accept or
when they reply to your message you
could send them a loom video with a few
ideas it could be a guest article on
their website that's relevant to both
your audiences in in return you ask for
a back link to one of your money
keywords and money pages over time the
partnership can grow we've done this
with loads of businesses and not only do
we do content together build back links
together but we also now send referral
business each other's way another
strategy is the guest on industry
relevant podcasts so you can use sites
like listennotes tocom to quickly filter
out your target audien's shows that
could be things like you search for SAS
marketing or B2B Marketing in our space
in your space you might search for
finter counting Sports whoever your
target market is and you can quickly see
the top shows in your Niche and whoever
hosts them so you can reach out to the
hosts again it could be a LinkedIn it
could be email again with a painfully
short message like had a weird idea for
your podcast that could be useful for
your a audence who against a quick chat
a lot of folks accept these requests and
say what the heck are you talking about
like what's your idea and then I would
again send them a loom video send them
some one two three ideas for their
podcast say really enjoying your recent
show had an idea for your podcast that
could be super valuable for your
audience here's two options would you be
against having me on this has a really
good hit rate and again you can go on
the podcast you can get in front of
their audience and afterwards you can
ask for a backlink on the article page
when they make the podcast episode live
and the last idea to build back links
for free is to leverage past Med media
from your exact team or your founder
team what you can do is you can go on to
Tool like semrush or H Ruffs you can get
the profile page or the LinkedIn profile
page of your exec or your founder copy
and paste it into semrush or H refs or
similar tool click onto the back links
Tab and look at all the niche relevant
sites that have linked to your founder
or your exec profile page on LinkedIn
and then reach out to whoever was the
author of each page and say look thanks
very much for featuring our exec on your
recent page wondered if you could
actually add a back link to one of our
Focus keywords we going after at the
moment most will be more than happy to
do it as they've already taken the
effort to build out the article the pr
and Link back to you so it's a really
quick win to get some of those juicy
backlinks to some of your money pages
and keywords and there you have it
that's a highlevel strategy of how you
can start seriously scaling your SAS
company's Mr with SEO if you've tuned in
so far and you've maybe thought this
sounds a little bit tricky or perhaps
you lack the inhouse resource to make it
a success why not head over to Breaking
bb.com you can book a call with us we
can go deep into where you're at now and
where You' like to scale to we can share
some growth ideas and strategies so you
can see if we're the right fit to help
your SAS company scale with SEO that's
breaking bb.com or hit the link in the
description below oh and if you're not
ready yet why not check out the breaking
B2B podcast or breaking B2B newsletter
for free tips and ideas to scale your
SAS and with that I'll catch you on the
next one cheers